{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 UNIVERSITY OF LONDON INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMMES\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 BSc Computer Science and Related Subjects\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 CM3070 PROJECT\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 PRELIMINARY PROJECT REPORT\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Career-Aware Educational Content Recommendation System\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Author: Jaslyn Chan Yu Xin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Student Number: 240662387\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Date of Submission: 29 May 2026\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Supervisor: Chew Jee Loong\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Contents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chapter 1: Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chapter 2: Literature Review\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chapter 3: Project Design\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Chapter 4: Feature Prototype\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Appendices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab References\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Chapter 1: Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Computing learners can access large numbers of online courses, tutorials, projects, and career pathways from platforms such as Coursera, DataCamp, and freeCodeCamp (Coursera, n.d.; DataCamp, 2022; freeCodeCamp, 2014). This abundance is useful, but it can also make self-directed learning difficult. A learner who wants to become a Data Analyst, Machine Learning Engineer, or Software Developer may not need a full fixed career track immediately. They may need a precise next step that addresses a current skill gap, fits their present ability, and helps them start practical work early.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This project develops a career-aware educational content recommendation system for computing learners. The system uses a learner\u8217's target pathway, current skill levels, weak skills, completed topics, preferred difficulty, and learning-resource metadata to recommend a staged learning path. The intended project template is a data science recommender prototype rather than a full learning management system. The project focuses on recommendation logic, evaluation, and an explainable research demo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The main idea is to avoid rigid full career tracks. Instead, the recommender supports a \u8220"learn just enough, start practical work, deepen later\u8221" approach. For example, an aspiring Data Analyst who already knows basic Python and Excel but has weak SQL and dashboard skills should receive targeted SQL, data cleaning, and visualisation resources before being shown broad optional career tracks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 1.1 Aim\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The aim of the project is to design, implement, and evaluate an explainable career-aware educational content recommendation system for computing learners.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 1.2 Research Questions\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The project investigates the following questions:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab How can learner profiles and career pathway requirements be represented so that skill gaps can be used in recommendation?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Can a hybrid recommender produce more relevant top-five learning-resource recommendations than a popularity baseline and a content-based recommender?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab How can recommendation explanations make the suggested learning path more understandable to learners and evaluators?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Can a lightweight prototype demonstrate practical, staged learning guidance without becoming a full learning platform?\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 1.3 Objectives And Deliverables\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The objectives and related deliverables are:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Objective\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Deliverable\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Curate computing learning resources from multiple providers\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/resources.csv}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Define career skill requirements for the target pathways\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/skill_map.csv} and {\f1 data/skill_sources.csv}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Represent learner profiles\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/learner_profiles.csv}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Implement recommendation models\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 popularity, content-based, and hybrid models in {\f1 src/edu_recommender/models.py}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Evaluate ranking quality\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Precision@K, Recall@K, and NDCG@K in {\f1 src/edu_recommender/evaluation.py}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Produce reproducible outputs\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 src/run_pipeline.py} and files in {\f1 outputs/}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Demonstrate the feature prototype\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Streamlit app in {\f1 src/app.py}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These objectives support the aim because they cover the full recommender workflow: data preparation, learner modelling, ranking, explanation, evaluation, and prototype demonstration. The work remains intentionally narrower than a commercial learning platform so that the data science problem stays central.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Chapter 2: Literature Review\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Educational recommender systems are designed to reduce information overload by matching learning materials with learner context (Manouselis et al., 2010; Salau et al., 2022). This matters in online computing education because learners often face many possible courses, tutorials, projects, and career tracks at the same time. Educational recommendation is also different from recommending films or products. A learning resource should not only look useful; it should also fit the learner\u8217's current knowledge, career goal, prerequisites, and next sensible step. For example, an advanced machine learning course may be popular, but it may not help a learner who first needs Python, statistics, or model-evaluation foundations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This makes learner modelling important. Manouselis et al.\u160 ?(2010) show that technology-enhanced learning recommenders need to consider educational context, not only item preference. For this project, that supports representing learners through target pathway, current skill levels, weak skills, completed topics, and preferred difficulty. At the same time, learner profiles are never perfect. In this prototype they are simplified and partly self-reported, so a learner may overestimate or underestimate their ability. This means recommendations should be transparent and adjustable rather than presented as final answers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Content-based recommendation is useful when interaction logs are limited. Instead of relying on large numbers of historical ratings, a content-based method compares item features with a user profile (Aggarwal, 2016; Google Developers, n.d.). This fits the current project because a final-year prototype cannot realistically collect large-scale learner click, rating, or completion histories. Even without that data, resource metadata such as title, topic, covered skills, prerequisites, format, difficulty, and description can still help estimate whether a resource matches learner needs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The weakness of a purely content-based approach is that textual similarity does not fully capture educational suitability. Two resources may mention similar skills, but one may be too broad, too advanced, or less relevant to the learner\u8217's target pathway. Content-based methods can also give too much weight to repeated keywords in metadata. For that reason, content-based recommendation is useful as a comparison model, but it is not enough as the whole solution.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Hybrid recommendation is more suitable when the ranking depends on several signals. Salau et al.\u160 ?(2022) discuss content-based, collaborative, knowledge-based, and hybrid approaches as common techniques in e-learning recommender systems. In this project, career relevance, skill gaps, difficulty fit, prerequisites, quality, and content similarity each capture a different aspect of usefulness. The advantage of a hybrid approach is that it can recommend resources that are not just textually similar, but also relevant to the pathway and realistic for the learner to attempt.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The limitation of a manually weighted hybrid model is that the weights may reflect the designer\u8217's assumptions. For example, giving high importance to skill gaps may improve personalisation, but it could also focus too heavily on weaknesses and under-recommend exploratory resources. This is why evaluation is necessary. Comparing the hybrid model with a popularity baseline and a content-based model helps test whether the extra pathway and skill-gap signals improve the ranked results.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The project is also influenced by explainable recommendation. Zhang and Chen (2020) argue that explanations help users understand why items are recommended and can improve transparency, trustworthiness, and satisfaction. Learners should be able to see whether a resource was suggested because it teaches a high-priority career skill, addresses a weak area, matches their preferred difficulty, or supports a practical project. Explanations are especially important in education because learners still need to judge whether the recommendation fits their confidence, time constraints, and career plans. In this project, explanation text is therefore treated as part of the recommender output rather than a cosmetic addition.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Existing learning platforms and career tracks also motivate the project. Coursera professional certificates and DataCamp career tracks provide useful structure for learners who want a guided route (Coursera, n.d.; DataCamp, 2022). freeCodeCamp also provides broad, accessible programming pathways and resources (freeCodeCamp, 2014). These platforms are useful sources for understanding common learning pathways because they are widely used and publish role-oriented curricula. However, their pathways are often fixed and broad. A fixed sequence may ask a learner to complete many topics before doing practical work, even if the learner already has some relevant knowledge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This creates an opportunity for a narrower recommender. The aim is not to replace structured learning platforms, but to use them as evidence and optional references while focusing on personalised next steps. Overall, the literature and platform examples support the project in three ways. They show that recommendation is useful in education because learners face information overload. They justify content-based and hybrid approaches for a prototype without large interaction logs. They also point to the main gap this project addresses: transparent, career-aware, skill-gap-based recommendations that are more targeted than a full career track and more educationally meaningful than popularity-based ranking.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Chapter 3: Project Design\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.1 Domain And Users\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The project domain is computing education and career-oriented self-directed learning. The target users are learners who want to build skills for one of three pathways:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Data Analyst\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Machine Learning Engineer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Software Developer\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These users may include university students, career switchers, independent learners, or early-career computing learners. They may already know some topics, have uneven skill levels, and need guidance on what to study next.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.2 User And Domain Requirements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The design is based on the need for practical and understandable guidance. The system should recommend concise next steps, not only long courses or full tracks. It should avoid changing the visible order of recommendations every time a learner marks progress, because sudden reordering can make the path harder to follow. It should also show recommendation reasons so that the learner can judge whether the suggestion is suitable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The main functional requirements are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab load structured datasets for resources, learner profiles, skill maps, and relevance labels\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab calculate skill gaps for a learner and a target pathway\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab rank resources with multiple recommendation models\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab produce recommendation explanations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab construct a staged learning path for the learner view\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab compare model performance for research evaluation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab export report-ready recommendation and metric outputs\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The non-functional requirements are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab reproducible command-line pipeline\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab transparent scoring logic\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab lightweight implementation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab readable research outputs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab clear separation between recommender prototype and full LMS features\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.3 Data Design\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The current datasets are stored as CSV files.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Dataset\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Purpose\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/resources.csv}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Curated metadata for 96 learning resources\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/skill_map.csv}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skill importance requirements for the three pathways\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/skill_sources.csv}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Source rationale for pathway skill choices\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/learner_profiles.csv}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Seven sample learner profiles\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 data/relevance_judgements.csv}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Curated relevance labels for evaluation\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The datasets are prototype datasets created for this project rather than scraped platform data or real learner behaviour logs. The resource dataset was manually curated from publicly available learning-platform information and then normalised into a consistent CSV structure. The skill map was informed by the project proposal, role-oriented learning pathways, and career-skill references recorded in {\f1 data/skill_sources.csv}. The learner profiles and relevance judgements are simulated/curated examples used to test whether the recommender works as a feasible prototype. This provenance is important because the evaluation shows prototype ranking quality, not large-scale evidence of real learner outcomes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Resource metadata includes title, provider, topic, covered skills, difficulty level, duration, format, prerequisites, cost, popularity score, quality score, pathway relevance, and description. Learner profiles include target pathway, current skill levels, completed topics, weak skills, preferred difficulty, maximum duration, and preferred format. A summary of the dataset fields is provided in Appendix A.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The pathway skill map uses a 0-3 scale informed by learning-platform pathways and career-skill sources such as IMDA\u8217's Skills Framework for Infocomm Technology (Infocomm Media Development Authority, n.d.).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Value\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Meaning\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Not central to the pathway\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Useful supporting skill\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Important pathway skill\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Core high-priority skill\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Skill gaps are calculated by comparing the learner\u8217's current skill level with the pathway requirement. This allows the system to distinguish between general relevance and personal need. For example, SQL may matter to both a Data Analyst and a Software Developer, but the pathway importance and recommended resource sequence may differ. The skill-map method and source rationale are summarised in Appendix B.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.4 Recommender Structure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The system compares three models.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The popularity baseline ranks resources using general quality and popularity signals only:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 baseline_score = 0.65 * quality_score + 0.35 * popularity_score\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The content-based recommender builds text representations for learners and resources, then compares them using TF-IDF vectors and cosine similarity, following the general principle that item metadata can be matched against a user profile when interaction data is limited (Aggarwal, 2016; Google Developers, n.d.). The learner document is formed from pathway and profile features such as current skills, weak skills, completed topics, and calculated skill gaps. The resource document uses metadata such as title, provider, topic, skills, prerequisites, format, and description.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The hybrid recommender is the main proposed model. It combines structured pathway, skill-gap, difficulty, prerequisite, quality, and content-similarity signals, reflecting the use of hybrid approaches in e-learning recommender systems (Salau et al., 2022).\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Component\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weight\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Career pathway relevance\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 25%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Skill gap match\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 25%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Job-skill alignment\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 15%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Difficulty match\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Prerequisite match\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Resource quality and popularity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 10%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Content similarity\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5%\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Career relevance and skill-gap match receive the largest weights because the project is designed to recommend career-aware, personalised next steps. Difficulty and prerequisite signals reduce the chance of recommending unsuitable resources. Quality and popularity provide a weak general usefulness signal without dominating the learner-specific ranking.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.5 Technologies And Methods\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The implementation uses Python, pandas, scikit-learn, and Streamlit (Scikit-learn, 2019). The main modules are:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/edu_recommender/data.py} for loading structured project data\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/edu_recommender/text.py} for text processing helpers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/edu_recommender/models.py} for scoring and recommendation models\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/edu_recommender/evaluation.py} for ranking metrics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/run_pipeline.py} for producing CSV and HTML evaluation outputs\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 src/app.py} for the Streamlit learner and research views\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The pipeline writes recommendation outputs for each model, evaluation metrics, and an HTML report into {\f1 outputs/}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.6 Work Plan\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2880\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5760\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Period\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Main tasks\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Milestone\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 1-2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Confirm project scope, target pathways, and report structure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Approved preliminary direction\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 3-4\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Curate resource dataset and initial skill map\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 First complete dataset draft\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 5-6\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Implement data loading, learner profiles, and baseline model\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Reproducible baseline output\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 7-8\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Implement content-based and hybrid recommenders\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Working model comparison\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 9-10\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Build Streamlit feature prototype and explanation view\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Demonstrable prototype\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 11-12\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Create relevance judgements and evaluation pipeline\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Metrics and result tables\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 13-14\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Run usability feedback and refine design\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Feedback-informed improvements\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Weeks 15-16\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Write final report, prepare screenshots, and record demo video\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Final submission package\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 3.7 Testing And Evaluation Plan\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The evaluation compares the popularity baseline, content-based recommender, and hybrid recommender on seven sample learner profiles. Prototype relevance judgements mark resources that directly address a learner\u8217's target pathway and weak areas. The main ranking metrics are Precision@K, Recall@K, and NDCG@K, with K=5 because the learner-facing use case emphasizes a short ranked list rather than a long catalogue. The metric formulas are listed in Appendix C.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The prototype will also be tested through functional checks:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab app loads successfully\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab both Learner View and Research View work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab sample and custom profiles work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab each path stage has content\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab checking a resource does not reorder recommendations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab reset clears progress\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Research View remains readable\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab pipeline still runs\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The evaluation results will be interpreted as prototype evidence rather than large-scale proof of learning outcomes. The current labels are curated and should be strengthened later with learner or supervisor feedback.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Chapter 4: Feature Prototype\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The feature prototype implements one of the most important technical features of the project: an explainable staged learning path generated from career-aware recommendations. It is implemented as a Streamlit app in {\f1 src/app.py}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The prototype has two views. The Learner View allows a sample learner profile or a custom learner profile to be selected. It shows profile details, skill gaps, a staged path, recommendation reasons, resource metadata, completed-resource checkboxes, and simple skill increases such as {\f1 SQL 1 > 2}. The Research View shows ranked outputs and model comparison metrics for the FYP evaluation. Prototype screenshots are included in Appendix D.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The staged path has four sections:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\f1 Learn just enough}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\f1 Start a practical project}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\f1 Deepen later}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\f1 Optional structured tracks}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The design separates precise recommendations from broad tracks. Broad career tracks can still appear, but only as optional structured references. This keeps the project aligned with the goal of recommending \u8220"just enough\u8221" to begin practical work and then deepen later.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The current feature prototype also preserves the recommendation order while a learner marks resources as completed. Completed resources are marked visually, and reset clears progress. This behaviour is important because immediate reordering after each checkbox click could make the recommendation path feel unstable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 4.1 Current Prototype Results\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The current evaluation results at K=5 are:\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2160\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6480\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Model\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Precision@5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Recall@5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 NDCG@5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Popularity baseline\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.2571\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.0574\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.2524\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Content-based\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.8571\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.2044\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.8668\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2160\cellx4320\cellx6480\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Hybrid\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.9714\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.2308\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0.9758\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The popularity baseline performs poorly because generally popular resources do not necessarily match a specific pathway or weak skill. The content-based recommender improves substantially because resource metadata overlaps with learner skill and topic needs. The hybrid model produces the strongest current ranking by adding structured pathway, skill-gap, difficulty, prerequisite, and quality signals to the content match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The recall values are lower than precision because a top-five recommendation list cannot retrieve every resource that may be relevant in the curated label set. This is acceptable for the current prototype use case, where concise high-quality next steps are preferred over a long exhaustive list.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 4.2 Prototype Evaluation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The prototype works as a feasibility demonstration. It shows that the project can load learner and resource data, calculate skill gaps, rank resources with different models, explain recommendations, and display a staged learning path. It also provides a research view that supports model comparison.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The prototype is not yet a complete learning platform. It does not include authentication, long-term learner tracking, classrooms, payments, or formal course completion records. This is intentional because those features would distract from the recommender research question.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Planned improvements before final submission include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab refine the dataset and relevance labels\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab add a small learner feedback study\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab strengthen the written justification for skill-map choices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab add final report screenshots\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab prepare a clear 3-minute demonstration video\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab compare user impressions of staged recommendations against broad fixed tracks\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The demonstration video will show selecting a learner profile, viewing the staged recommendations, marking a resource as completed, resetting progress, and opening the Research View to show model metrics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Appendices\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The appendix source files are organised in {\f1 docs/appendices/}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Appendix A: Dataset Field Summary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 See {\f1 docs/appendices/appendix_a_dataset_field_summary.md}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Appendix B: Skill-Map Method\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 See {\f1 docs/appendices/appendix_b_skill_map_method.md}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Appendix C: Evaluation Metric Formulas\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 See {\f1 docs/appendices/appendix_c_evaluation_metric_formulas.md}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Appendix D: Prototype Screenshots\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 See {\f1 docs/appendices/appendix_d_prototype_screenshots.md}. Screenshot image files should be stored in {\f1 docs/appendices/screenshots/}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 References\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Aggarwal, C. C. (2016). {\i Recommender Systems: The Textbook}. Available at: {\f1 https://pzs.dstu.dp.ua/DataMining/recom/bibl/1aggarwal_c_c_recommender_systems_the_textbook.pdf} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Coursera. (n.d.). {\i Online Professional Certificate Programs}. Available at: {\f1 https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab DataCamp. (2022). {\i Career-building data science learning paths}. Available at: {\f1 https://www.datacamp.com/tracks/career} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab freeCodeCamp. (2014). {\i Learn to code}. Available at: {\f1 https://www.freecodecamp.org/} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Google Developers. (n.d.). {\i Recommendation Systems Overview}. Available at: {\f1 https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/recommendation/overview/types} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Manouselis, N., Drachsler, H., Vuorikari, R., Hummel, H. and Koper, R. (2010). \u8220"Recommender Systems in Technology Enhanced Learning\u8221", in {\i Recommender Systems Handbook}, pp.\u160 ?387-415. Open preliminary version. Available at: {\f1 https://research.ou.nl/ws/files/938821/RecSys_Handbook-preliminary_version.pdf} (Accessed: 29 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Salau, L., Hamada, M., Prasad, R., Hassan, M., Mahendran, A. and Watanobe, Y. (2022). \u8220"State-of-the-Art Survey on Deep Learning-Based Recommender Systems for E-Learning\u8221", {\i Applied Sciences}, 12(23), 11996. Available at: {\f1 https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/12/23/11996} (Accessed: 29 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Scikit-learn. (2019). {\i User guide}. Available at: {\f1 https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html} (Accessed: 12 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Infocomm Media Development Authority. (n.d.). {\i Skills Framework}. Available at: {\f1 https://www.imda.gov.sg/resources/skills-framework} (Accessed: 29 May 2026).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Zhang, Y. and Chen, X. (2020). \u8220"Explainable Recommendation: A Survey and New Perspectives\u8221", {\i Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval}, 14(1), pp.\u160 ?1-101. Available at: {\f1 https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.11192} (Accessed: 29 May 2026).\sa180\par}
